course_plan.md, before:

# Course Plan

## About

This document provides the course plan (&ldquo;syllabus&rdquo;) for CS414 Game
Studio 1, Fall 2023, at Ball State University.

## Course Information

- **Meetings**: MWF 9:00&mdash;10:50 in the new Game Design & Development Studio Space (RB353)
- **Instructor**: [Paul Gestwicki, Ph.D.](https://www.cs.bsu.edu/~pvgestwicki)
- **Office Location**: RB479
- **Drop-In Hours**: Posted on [my website](https://www.cs.bsu.edu/~pvgestwicki)
- **Appointments outside of drop-in hours**: Taken via email or Slack
- **Required Text**: Richard Lemarchand. _A Playful Production Process_. MIT Press. 2021.
- **Prerequisite**: CS390 with a minimum grade of C-

The course catalog provides this short description of the course:
> Multidisciplinary teams follow contemporary best practices of game software
> development to begin building an original video game.

## Background

You have taken CS390. You know why you are here. Let's make some amazing games.

## Learning Outcomes

By the end of this course sequence, a student will be able to:
- Collaborate on a multidisciplinary team to produce and release an original videogame.
- Explain the facets of a contemporary agile game software development process as manifest on a multidisciplinary game team
- Communicate intermediate and final reports to multiple audiences in various presentation modes

## Evaluation and Grades

The alpha milestone is the most significant requirement of the semester. Your alpha milestone
will be considered satisfactory if it meets the following requirements:
- The project meets the Alpha Milestone criteria described in Lemarchand Chapter
  28.
- At least one formal playtest was conducted, with the results analyzed and
  presented in a studio meeting, during the alpha phase.
- Game metrics are incorporated as per the checklist in Lemarchand Chapter 26
  (page 275). The integration, analysis, visualization, and use of feedback to
  refine the game design have been presented to the studio during the alpha
  phase.
- An appropriate bug tracking process is established, documented, and put in
  use.
- Coding standards are established, documented, and followed.
- The milestone is presented at the Alpha Milestone Review.

Each student is expected to complete two one-on-one meetings with the professor
to discuss their progress and performance in the studio&mdash;one at midsemester
and one at the end of the semester. These meetings will result in either a
satisfactory or unsatisfactory performance review. In the case of an
unsatisfactory review, a personal improvement plan will be given to direct the
individual in a positive direction.

---

Individual student grades then will be determined by the following specification.

Meeting these criteria earns a D or better grade.
- Your alpha milestone does not satisfy its requirements before the final exam period begins.
- You complete one of your one-on-one meetings with the professor.
 
Meeting all the previous criteria as well as the following earns a C or better grade:
- Your team's alpha milestone satisfies its requirements before the final exam period begins.
- You have completed both of your one-on-one meetings with the professor.

Meeting all of the previous criteria as well as the following
earns a B or better grade:
- Your team's alpha milestone satisfies its requirements by the published deadline.
- You have successfully started your beta production phase before the start of finals week.
- You have resolved all issues arising from your one-on-one meeting with the professor.

Meeting all of the previous criteria as well as **one** of the
following earns an A grade:
  - You have served as a playtest coordinator and ensured that all of the requirements and goals of the playtest are met.
  - Another team member gives you a commendation for excellence via email to the professor. Each student may give only one such commendation.

## Miscellany

### Academic Integrity

Students and faculty are bound by the [Student Academic Ethics Policy of the Code of Student Rights and Responsibilities](https://www.bsu.edu/about/administrativeoffices/student-conduct). 

### Notice for Students with Disabilities

If you need course adaptations or accommodations because of a disability, please contact me as soon as possible. The Office of Disability Services coordinates services for students with disabilities; documentation of a disability needs to be on file in that office before any accommodations can be provided. Disability Services can be contacted at 765-285-5293 or dsd@bsu.edu.

### Statement on Diversity

The university governance system passed a resolution mandating that the following or a mild variation be included on all course plans:

> Ball State University aspires to be a university that attracts and retains a
> diverse faculty, staff, and student body. We are committed to ensuring that
> all members of the community are welcome, through valuing the various
> experiences and worldviews represented at Ball State and among those we serve.
> We promote a culture of respect and civil discourse as expressed in our
> Beneficence Pledge and through university resources found here.

When the preacher comes to the scramble light and insists that we are all going
to Hell, I expect you to make him feel welcome.

Commit message:

Add Spring CS415 information to schedule

course_plan.md, after:

# Course Plan

## About

This document provides the course plan (&ldquo;syllabus&rdquo;) for 
CS414 Game Studio 1, Fall 2023, 
and 
CS415 Game Studio 2, Spring 2024,
at Ball State University.

## Course Information

- **Meetings**: MWF 9:00&mdash;10:50 in the new Game Design & Development Studio Space (RB353)
- **Instructor**: [Paul Gestwicki, Ph.D.](https://www.cs.bsu.edu/~pvgestwicki)
- **Office Location**: RB479
- **Drop-In Hours**: Posted on [my website](https://www.cs.bsu.edu/~pvgestwicki)
- **Appointments outside of drop-in hours**: Taken via email or Slack
- **Required Text**: Richard Lemarchand. _A Playful Production Process_. MIT Press. 2021.
- **Prerequisite**: 
    - For CS414: CS390 with a minimum grade of C-
    - For CS415: CS414 with a minimum grade of C-

The course catalog provides this short description of CS414:
> Multidisciplinary teams follow contemporary best practices of game software
> development to begin building an original video game.

The catalog description of CS415 is:
> Continuation of CS 414.  Must be taken in the semester following CS 414.
> Multidisciplinary teams complete and publish an original videogame. 

## Background

You have taken CS390. You know why you are here. Let's make some amazing games.

## Learning Outcomes

By the end of this course sequence, a student will be able to:
- Collaborate on a multidisciplinary team to produce and release an original videogame.
- Explain the facets of a contemporary agile game software development process as manifest on a multidisciplinary game team
- Communicate intermediate and final reports to multiple audiences in various presentation modes

## Evaluation and Grades

### CS414 (Fall)

The alpha milestone is the most significant requirement of the semester. Your alpha milestone
will be considered satisfactory if it meets the following requirements:
- The project meets the Alpha Milestone criteria described in Lemarchand Chapter
  28.
- At least one formal playtest was conducted, with the results analyzed and
  presented in a studio meeting, during the alpha phase.
- Game metrics are incorporated as per the checklist in Lemarchand Chapter 26
  (page 275). The integration, analysis, visualization, and use of feedback to
  refine the game design have been presented to the studio during the alpha
  phase.
- An appropriate bug tracking process is established, documented, and put in
  use.
- Coding standards are established, documented, and followed.
- The milestone is presented at the Alpha Milestone Review.

Each student is expected to complete two one-on-one meetings with the professor
to discuss their progress and performance in the studio&mdash;one at midsemester
and one at the end of the semester. These meetings will result in either a
satisfactory or unsatisfactory performance review. In the case of an
unsatisfactory review, a personal improvement plan will be given to direct the
individual in a positive direction.

---

Individual student grades then will be determined by the following specification.

Meeting these criteria earns a D or better grade.
- Your alpha milestone does not satisfy its requirements before the final exam period begins.
- You complete one of your one-on-one meetings with the professor.
 
Meeting all the previous criteria as well as the following earns a C or better grade:
- Your team's alpha milestone satisfies its requirements before the final exam period begins.
- You have completed both of your one-on-one meetings with the professor.

Meeting all of the previous criteria as well as the following
earns a B or better grade:
- Your team's alpha milestone satisfies its requirements by the published deadline.
- You have successfully started your beta production phase before the start of finals week.
- You have resolved all issues arising from your one-on-one meeting with the professor.

Meeting all of the previous criteria as well as **one** of the
following earns an A grade:
  - You have served as a playtest coordinator and ensured that all of the requirements and goals of the playtest are met.
  - Another team member gives you a commendation for excellence via email to the professor. Each student may give only one such commendation.

### CS415 (Spring)

TBD

## Miscellany

### Academic Integrity

Students and faculty are bound by the [Student Academic Ethics Policy of the Code of Student Rights and Responsibilities](https://www.bsu.edu/about/administrativeoffices/student-conduct). 

### Notice for Students with Disabilities

If you need course adaptations or accommodations because of a disability, please contact me as soon as possible. The Office of Disability Services coordinates services for students with disabilities; documentation of a disability needs to be on file in that office before any accommodations can be provided. Disability Services can be contacted at 765-285-5293 or dsd@bsu.edu.

### Statement on Diversity

The university governance system passed a resolution mandating that the following or a mild variation be included on all course plans:

> Ball State University aspires to be a university that attracts and retains a
> diverse faculty, staff, and student body. We are committed to ensuring that
> all members of the community are welcome, through valuing the various
> experiences and worldviews represented at Ball State and among those we serve.
> We promote a culture of respect and civil discourse as expressed in our
> Beneficence Pledge and through university resources found here.

When the preacher comes to the scramble light and insists that we are all going
to Hell, I expect you to make him feel welcome.
